# Investigating Loop Detection Algorithms


## Prerequisites
A **UNIX** derivative, preferably Debian/Ubuntu, MacOS, is required to compile each algorithm and generate similar results.

[Bash v5.1.16(1)+](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/) to run shell-scripts

[GCC v13.1.1+](https://gcc.gnu.org/install/binaries.html) to use G++ as a C++ Compiler to compile algorithms 1 to 3. Please ensure the version installed is compatible with C++ 17.

[CBMC v5.77.0+](https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/releases) to generate Lexical and Natural Loops results.

[Graphviz v2.40.1+](https://graphviz.org/download/) to generate a CFG visualizing the (\*c) program used by shell scripts.

[GNU Time v1.9](https://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/time/) | [GNU Time Mac v1.9](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/gnu-time) to include measurement of program runtime, CPU and RAM resource usage.


## Algorithms
Within each algorithms folder, there are two sub-folders for each generated algorithm. One folder contains the source code for the edge detection algorithm, whilst the other contains the results generated using the algorithm for each test case under a folder given by the same name and hyphen results, containing results.

Only CBMC algorithms deviate from this as the source code for their implementations is locatable on the hyperlinks below to the specific commit used for each algorithm, such that if the algorithms deviate after the project, the code visible by both parties is the same:

[CBMC Lexical Loops](https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/blob/cafbcc44856ee3d3007b1f53de24a8b1c44580b6/src/analyses/lexical_loops.h#L1)

[CBMC Natural Loops](https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/blob/cafbcc44856ee3d3007b1f53de24a8b1c44580b6/src/analyses/natural_loops.h#L1)

## CBMC Bugs
Contains folders for each generated bug report containing the supporting evidence for each bug report. A text file contains the URL to the submitted bug report for each bug.

## CFG Test Cases
Contains a (\*.c) program and its equivalent representation as a CFG. (\*.goto) is an intermediary generated by CBMC to generate (\*.dot) file Graphviz output. Files named "graphviz.svg" are the raw output CFGs. Each folder contains a single test case and the equivalent representation as a CFG.

Every folder contains a truncated (\*.svg) file referenced by the test case name, which removes CFG elements provided by CBMC, to include the original program's CFG structure.

## Deprecated
Deprecated contains:
 - Incorrect or old results.
 - Code that is ultimately non-functioning.
 - NixOS configuration files after determining that runtime analysis is negligible due to the size of the input CFGs.

## Shell Scripts
Contains shell scripts to generate results for all algorithms compared.

"developed-algorithms-test-generation.sh" generates results for algorithms 1 to 3. This algorithm requires that it be imported into the source code's location to operate. It is located in a separate directory to avoid duplicating the script unnecessarily. This script does not take any arguments.

Or transfer the script to a (*.c) program and run the commands above.

"cbmc-algorithms-test-generation.sh" generates the results for both CBMC algorithms requiring an input (*.c) program to operate. This script contains five arguments:
```
-f is the input (*.c) program file given as input to the script (REQUIRED)
-l generates results for lexical_loops.h (Optional)
-n generates results for natural_loops.h (Optional)
-s generates a CFG from the input program returning an (*.svg) (Optional)
-h show all options (Optional)
```

To enable execution and run these scripts after transferring to the appropriate location run:
```
chmod +x ./{SCRIPTNAME}.sh

./{SCRIPTNAME}.sh
```
